Bitcoin lets people exchange money electronically as easily as sending as sending as email or text. 
Bitcoins aren’t backed by any government, they are decentralized form of money. They are not linked to any bank or issuing authority.
This currency exists in online world driven by mathematics and some encryption protocols. 
To use bitcoins for transactions you need to first buy bitcoins either through your credit card, bank account or even anonymously with cash. 
Then your bitcoins are transferred into your Bitcoin account, and you can send and receive payments directly to a buyer or seller without of anyone in between such as bank or credit card company.
By skipping the middle man in transaction the cost ie less and each party can maintain higher level of anonymity. 
Bitcoin system runs on P2P (peer to peer) network. This P2P architecture is similar to file sharing networks. 
Each Bitcoin user's computer is part of the network, collectively sharing the computing burden of generating bitcoins and logging their transactions.
It's this decentralized nature that makes Bitcoin impervious to government meddling, free of regulation and monitoring. 
When you send or receive coins, they are verified by a digital signature, called a public-encryption key, which prevents counterfeiting and makes coins recognizable to the network.
It's at this point that many people wonder about the legitimacy of bitcoins. How can a currency just appear overnight on the Internet and have actual value? 
           All currencies have value only because people believe that they have value.
Bitcoin is no different in that regard.Bitcoin transactions are irreversible and generally very fast.
However, because the bitcoin verification process must share data regarding the transaction with the entire network, sometimes you'll wait minutes before a payment is completed.
Because there are no national regulations for bitcoins, you can transfer them into or out of any country and dodge the steep fees that other such services charge. And because the system has no governing authority, your account has no limits and can never be frozen.
